Case Study: New data perspectives

As you have been learning, you can find data pretty much everywhere. Any time you observe and evaluate something in the world, you’re collecting and analyzing data.Your analysis helps 
you find easier ways of doing things, identify patterns to save you time, and discover surprising new perspectives that can completely change the way you experience things.

Here is a real-life example of how one group of data analysts used the six steps of the data analysis process to improve their workplace and its business processes. Their story 
involves something called people analytics — also known as human resources analytics or workforce analytics. People analytics is the practice of collecting and analyzing data on 
the people who make up a company’s workforce in order to gain insights to improve how the company operates.

Being a people analyst involves using data analysis to gain insights about employees and how they experience their work lives. The insights are used to define and create a more 
productive and empowering workplace. This can unlock employee potential, motivate people to perform at their best, and ensure a fair and inclusive company culture. 

The six steps of the data analysis process that you have been learning in this program are: ask, prepare, process, analyze, share, and act. These six steps apply to any data 
analysis. Continue reading to learn how a team of people analysts used these six steps to answer a business question. 

An organization was experiencing a high turnover rate among new hires. Many employees left the company before the end of their first year on the job. The analysts used the data 
analysis process to answer the following question: how can the organization improve the retention rate for new employees? 

Here is a break down of what this team did, step by step.



First up, the analysts needed to define what the project would look like and what would qualify as a successful result. So, to determine these things, they asked 
effective questions and collaborated with leaders and managers who were interested in the outcome of their people analysis. These were the kinds of questions they asked:

() What do you think new employees need to learn to be successful in their first year on the job? 
() Have you gathered data from new employees before? If so, may we have access to the historical data?
() Do you believe managers with higher retention rates offer new employees something extra or unique?
() What do you suspect is a leading cause of dissatisfaction among new employees?
() By what percentage would you like employee retention to increase in the next fiscal year?
